Adding Magic Motion documentation (#96)
framer/api-docs: pages/motion/animate-shared-layout.mdx

<!-- 👋 Editing this file? Need help? → https://github.com/framer/api-docs/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md -->

import {
  APIClass,
  APIVariable,
  APIFunction,
  APIMethod,
  APIInterface,
  APIProperty,
  APIMergedInterface,
  Template,
  Link,
  Ref,
  Callout,
  Todo,
  Button,
  EmbeddedExample,
} from "../../components"
import { AnimatePresenceExample } from "../../components/examples/motion"

export default Template("AnimateSharedLayout")

# AnimateSharedLayout

<span className="lead">
  Animate between different components that share a layout
  ID.
</span>

<Callout>
  <strong>Note:</strong> This feature is currently in beta.
  You can install the latest Framer Motion 2 beta using{" "}
  <code>npm install framer-motion@beta</code>.
</Callout>

<div>

> `AnimateSharedLayout` allows new components to animate out from other components that share the same `layoutId`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AnimateSharedLayout` allows animation between two separate components. These components do not have to be rendered in the same hierarchy, as long as they share the same `layoutId` and are wrapped within the same `AnimateSharedLayout` component.```

<iframe
  src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/framer-motion-magic-motion-underline-menu-demo-y6tl3?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark"
  style={{
    width: "100%",
    height: "500px",
    border: 0,
    borderRadius: 4,
    overflow: "hidden",
    marginBottom: 40,
  }}
  title="Framer Motion: Magic Motion underline menu demo"
  allow="geolocation; microphone; camera; midi; vr; accelerometer; gyroscope; payment; ambient-light-sensor; encrypted-media; usb"
  sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"
></iframe>

Or fully route-driven shared element transitions:

<iframe
  src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/framer-motion-magic-motion-app-store-demo-su6mx?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark"
  style={{
    width: "100%",
    height: "500px",
    border: 0,
    borderRadius: 4,
    overflow: "hidden",
    marginBottom: 40,
  }}
  title="Framer Motion: Magic Motion App Store demo"
  allow="geolocation; microphone; camera; midi; vr; accelerometer; gyroscope; payment; ambient-light-sensor; encrypted-media; usb"
  sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"

> ></iframe>

Reviewer 2: I don't have a suggestion here, but this demo is kinda broken due to the size of the iframe 😞 

<img width="603" alt="Screenshot 2020-04-08 at 10 36 43" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9043345/78769233-f4ec6b00-7984-11ea-8e27-fe3b87e34576.png">

```jsx
import { motion, AnimateSharedLayout } from "framer-motion"

export const MyComponent = ({ items, selectedId }) => (
  <AnimateSharedLayout>
    {items.map(item => (
      <li>
        {item.title}
        {item.id === selectedId && (
          <motion.div layoutId="underline" />
        )}
      </li>
    ))}
  </AnimateSharedLayout>
)
```

If the previous component still exists in the tree, it'll automatically be hidden using `opacity: 0`, but still occupy space in the layout.

### Exit animations

<div>

When a component that's expected to enter and exit the tree is wrapped in `AnimatePresence`, it'll automatically animate back to the original component with its `layoutId` when it's removed.

<Button
  name="Open example in CodeSandbox"
  link="https://codesandbox.io/s/framer-motion-magic-motion-gallery-demo-pknk7"
/>

</div>

```jsx
<AnimateSharedLayout>
  {images.map((img) => <motion.img layoutId={img.id} />)}
  <AnimatePresence>
    {selectedId && <motion.img layoutId={selectedId} />)}
  </AnimatePresence>
</AnimateSharedLayout>
```

### Crossfade

<div>

> Sometimes, the components that you're animating from/to might look different enough that when an entering/exiting component is added or removed there's an obvious visual switch. For instance, a text box might be wrapped differently in one layout than another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, the components that you are animating from/to might look different enough that when an entering/exiting component is added or removed there is an obvious visual switch. For instance, a text box might be wrapped differently in one layout than another.
```

By setting `type="crossfade"`, both the exiting and previous components will animate together. The root components in each stack that has either `animate={true}` or a `layoutId` will crossfade, so one gets hidden as the other is revealed.

<Button
  name="Open example in CodeSandbox"
  link="https://codesandbox.io/s/framer-motion-magic-motion-app-store-demo-su6mx"
/>

</div>

```jsx
<AnimateSharedLayout type="crossfade">
  {images.map((img) => <motion.img layoutId={img.id} />)}
  <AnimatePresence>
    {selectedId && <motion.img layoutId={selectedId} />)}
  </AnimatePresence>
</AnimateSharedLayout>
```

### Transition customisation

<div>

The transition used for the shared layout animation is defined in the component's `transition` prop.

> This accepts all the same `Transition` settings as usual, with the limitations that you can only set a single transition for all child components and individual values aren't supported. These limitations will be removed in a future release.

Reviewer: Maybe link to the transition documentation here?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This accepts all the same `Transition` settings as usual. Currently it is only possible to set a single transition for all child components. Using individual values per child component is not supported. This limitation will be removed in a future release.
```

</div>

```jsx
<AnimateSharedLayout transition={{ duration: 2 }}>
```

### Correcting visual distortion

For maximum performance, layouts are animated using the `transform` property. Animating `width` and `height` using `scaleX` and `scaleY` can introduce visual distortion on children.

This can be automatically corrected by making those children `motion` components with `animate={true}`.

```jsx

> <motion.div animate />

Reviewer: This example does not match the words
